[Music]
I been looking to discuss trading using
the black shs model for quite some time
especially in the context of Market
making and prop trading for that matter
but recently I've been externally
motivated by an enormous number of
questions pertaining to implementing
models for trading a lot of my previous
videos have talked about the statistics
behind profitability in trading over
time and I want to continue with this
idea uh because I keep getting
confronted with questions about price
prediction and you know a lot of the
underlying principles of price
prediction in the context of the the
trading Edge that I've discussed in
previous videos still hold true in that
in that ideology of of price prediction
but the thing that many people seem to
not understand unless you have Insider
information and you're certain that the
release of that information is going to
yield POS positive or negative results
there is no such thing as as price
prediction you're not going to predict
the price of an asset tomorrow and today
take out a second mortgage and lever up
on deep out of the money options because
you know that's that's not how this
works that's not how you make money in
the long term that's how you gamble
anybody can go to a casino and place
their money on black and maybe you
double your money great but in the long
run we all know that the the casino is
going to win because of the edge that
they have there are some betting
theories in place that can counteract
that casinos have limits Theory verse
practice so on and so forth but what I
want to do is I want to take what we've
discussed in previous videos this idea
of trading with some some sort of Edge
and apply it to trading using the black
schs model because all the blacks model
is doing is it's defining what the risk
neutral price of that option would be in
essence taking into account all possible
states of the world going forward
assuming some underlying Dynamics for
the stock price and it's telling you the
fair price to pay today for this
contract and if there is a A mispricing
in the marketplace or your quote for
that option contract falls outside of
this fair price then there may be some
statistical Arbitrage so let's actually
go ahead and take a look at what I mean
by this if we have any hope to trade
with the black schs model we need to
start with some fundamentals the blacks
model is the solution to the black schs
partial differential equation which is
derived from a hge portfolio argument
where the underlying asset Dynamics are
assumed to follow a geometric Brownian
motion and the derivative contract that
is held within sura portfolio is in fact
a European call option all that is to
say and honestly speaking after a
lifelong background in mathematics
myself you do not need to understand
what any of that is to be able to
understand the black shs model itself
and how to use it to trade so what I
have here on the screen is a very fancy
representation of the formula for a
European call Price and the particularly
quanti Among Us will be able to make out
a cumulative normal distribution
function here D1 D2 terms derived from
the black shols equation and the
underlying asset dynamics that are a
geometric browni and motion but if that
means nothing to you all you need to
know is if you give me five inputs I can
give you the price of an option now it's
important to understand the price that I
will give you is assuming the underlying
asset Dynamics follow a geometric
brownie emotion assuming a constant
volatility and a whole bunch of other
assumptions that are implicit to seual
formula to be able to derive a price
okay there are things that are
automatically wrong anytime you use a
model that's why we use models if we
didn't need a model and we just had the
Dynamics themselves there would be no
purpose in developing a model price so
it's very important to understand the
distinction but if you give me five
inputs I can give you an option price
you give me the underlying asset price
the strike price the volatility the
interest rate and the time until
maturity and I can tell you how much you
should pay for that option it's very
important to understand that each option
only has one p&l at expiration what do I
mean by this well theoretically given
this parameter set I pay 1423 for this
option so should I pay 1423 for this
option there are a significant number of
states of the world that are going to
result in me either making money or
losing money I've developed this nice
chart to explain the terminal value of
our option contract so what I have here
is this orange line is the strike price
the white line is the price path and the
red or green line represents the p&l so
what you'll see here is I'm long this
contract which means anytime this white
path finishes above the orange line I
may make money should I exceed the value
that I paid for the premium in the
payoff otherwise if it's below the line
or below that value for the premium
I'm going to lose money so every time I
run this you're going to see a different
price path I can only lose as much as I
paid for the premium where I have
unlimited upside potential so here I
lose here I lose here I make a good
amount of money I make 46 and I paid
1423 so this is an example of the
terminal value of the option contract we
don't know which state of the world
we're going to be in that's why somebody
is engaging in this transaction they're
betting again against you if you have
another side of this option contract
that is if you're long someone else is
short if you're short someone else is
long they're literally betting against
you so what we have here is possible
states of the world you don't know
whether or not this white price path
which in this simulation is governed by
a geometric Brown and motion is going to
finish below the orange line or above
the price that you paid for the premium
so here's one such example I paid 1423
it finished above the strike price but I
still post the loss because I didn't
cover the premium I paid for the option
so we know we don't know where this
price path is going to be in the future
so how much should we pay today for the
option contract well the theoretical
value can be determined by the black
shols model it is essentially taking all
of these price paths going forward so
every time I press the Run button I'm
getting a different price path think of
it as taking all of the possible places
that this could end up Computing the pnl
discounting it back to right now and
taking the average that is what the
black sches model is essentially
representing it's it's representing the
discounted expected p&l based on all
possible states of the world assuming
the underlying asset is governed by a
geometric brownie em motion that's how
the price of the contract is decided
that's why probability and statistics is
so important for quantitative Finance
because that's the back bone of pricing
now of course we don't know where it's
going to be but there's only going to be
one realization there's only going to be
one realized price path it's very
important to understand the difference
the model is going to give us a price
based on all forward looking possible
states of the world whereas the
actualization the realization of the
price path and the p&l well there's only
one of those and we don't know what it's
going to be we may make a significant
amount of money or we may lose money we
do not know
so if this is the case then how do we
make money using such theoretical
pricing models it seems hopeless if the
underlying assets Dynamics are in fact
governed by a geometric Brown em motion
then we can't possibly predict where
it's going to be in the future it's a
probability density function and
implicitly it's random you can't predict
whether a coin is going to be heads or
tails you can't predict whether a die is
going to roll five or six so how do we
make money using the black schs model if
we know what the fair price of the
contract is today this is why
probability and statistics is so
important for quantitative Finance
because supposing the assumptions that
go into the black schs model are true
that is the underlying asset is in fact
governed by a geometric priy em motion
that is volatility is constant so on and
so forth supposing that that is true
supposing that those assumptions are
true should we trade against the market
value value some discrepancy between the
theoretical value then we can accumulate
a positive expected value over time and
in fact make money what does this look
like let me give you an example so for
this parameterization set that I gave
you initially we have 100 100 30% 5% 1
the call price is
1423 I take this theoretical blacks
model price into the market and the
market maker quits me 1343 at 1410 so I
could buy the contract that has a
theoretical value of 1423 for
1410 what does that tell you well it
tells you right away that there is some
sort of mispricing that is the
theoretical value of this contract is
greater than the Market's current value
for the contract now there's a variety
of reasons why a market maker May shift
his quotes upwards or downwards we're
going to digress from that but I just
want to make it apparent that I'm not
just hand waving that away here we have
some sort of theoretical mispricing I'm
using this as an example to illustrate
how to make money using the black schs
model so here clearly the call price is
undervalued in the market the
theoretical price is 1423 the market
maker is quoting 1410 so now I have some
sort of of edge here calling this a
trading Edge a trade Edge this is what's
going to contribute to this positive
expected value what I mean to say is we
know that if I buy this contract at 1410
right now if I buy this contract to 1410
there's no guarantee I make money in
fact you can see here as I continue to
run
this here I lose money this very well
could be what happens when I buy the
contract at
however should I engage in this
transaction a significant number of
times if I did this 10,000 times 100,000
times what you'll do is you'll take the
average p&l and you'll see that for a
good fraction of them you are going to
in fact make money you're going to see
green bars more than you see red bars in
other words you're going to have a
positive expected trading value over
time and you'll accumulate account
Equity don't believe me well let's take
a look at what happens here I'm paying
1410 sold in lots of 100 paying 1410 for
Section option and I'm going to simulate
this white price path the geometric
brownia motion I'm going to simulate it
100,000 times
so I simulated geometric brownie motion
100,000 times and I take that green or
red bar the value of the p&l after
taking into account the premium that I
paid for the option and I add it to this
list called pnls and then I take the
average and what you'll see is that the
average is positive that is even though
I don't know where the geometric Brown
motion is going to end up I do know that
I'm getting getting a better price than
the theoretical price which means over
time I can capitalize statistically on
this mispricing by accumulating this
positive expected value what does this
look like in the context of actually
engaging in an option transaction well
what I'm going to do now is I'm going to
show you the outcome of your account
trading this over time so really this
isn't time but this is per option
so you'll see every time that I run this
I'm going to get a
different different portfolio value for
10 option
trades some go down some go up some go
down some go up but because we have a
positive expected value as I engage in
more of these option trades with this
theoretical mispricing what I'm going to
do is I'm going to start to
accumulate I'm going to start to
accumulate a account Equity so there's
trades there's 1,000
trades there's 10,000
trades there's 100,000 trades and this
is how you use the black scholes model
to make money it's not don't think small
it's not in the context of one trade you
need to trade a lot of contracts to be
able to capitalize on this mispricing
and this expected trade Edge this
expected value over time that is how you
make money that's how casinos make money
in the long run they need to survive the
short term survive the short run to make
it to the long run you make it to the
long run you can accumulate a
significant amount of wealth but if you
you know blow out in the short run then
there is no long run and you're not
going to accumulate this expected value
now clearly right away right you know
that you could lose money for the first
1,000 trades governed by this idea that
this white line has no reason to just be
above the strike price
this very well could be below and below
and below and you could run out of money
that very well could happen before you
get to the long run but that is what
we're doing that's how this works that's
how trading Works in general
specifically how to trade with this
black shs model now of course if I go
down here going to get some angry
comments if I don't say nonstationarity
and parameterization volatility is not
constant over time and lacks clustering
characteristics there's no jumps so on
and so forth the geometric browny
mission is not perfect that's very well
known look at a hon model hon model has
stochastic volatility volatility is is
stochastic it's a stochastic process in
itself so what I'm trying to really just
kind of throw an umbrella up before I I
catch a whole bunch of flack in the
comment section is I'm trying to say
that the black Souls model is an
imperfect model but it's pretty darn
good for what it's good for and the
whole idea of trading with such a model
whether you choose a black model or a
stochastic volatility model or a jump
diffusion model or whatever whatever it
is you choose to trade with whatever it
is you choose to to engage with the
market with or try to shed you know some
light in the market with um you need to
understand that you're making
assumptions you have to in order to try
to have any hope of figuring out what
the heck is going on if you didn't make
assumptions then you would just you know
hopefully have the actual dynamics of
what's going on and there would be no
need for this wouldn't even be having
this discussion right now but this is
the game so if you want to get involved
in this space this is the game you're
playing you're going to have to
understand how these models interact the
assumptions that go into them violations
of the assumptions environments where
the assumptions may be trer or more
faults CU all of these things play into
whether or not you're going to
accumulate a positive expected value
it's very easy for me to go in here and
whoops now there's negative drift to 50%
and this is going to change the entire
outcome of your trading strategy over
time if this doesn't make sense to you
then what you need to realize is even
though the system is imperfect there's a
lot of different parameterizations that
you could use there's a lot of different
things you you can use to kind of shed
some light on on what's going on and you
know hopefully in the long run you can
use it to make money that being said I
hope you found this video useful I hope
it was enjoyable I hope this sheds some
light on how to use a black shs model to
accumulate positive account Equity over
time and with that being said if you
have any questions feel free to drop
them in the comment section below or
join my Discord where I tend to be more
active but I hope you enjoyed and I will
see you in the next one